---
title: "Michael"
description: "This is a short story about Michael the Archangel I wrote for my college application back in 2011. "
layout: post
tags: fantasy
category: fiction
---

> The human narrative is replete with memorable characters like America's Paul Revere, ancient Greece's Perseus, or the Fox Spirits of East Asia. Imagine one of humanity's storied figures is alive and working in the world today. Why does Rapunzel work at Saks? Would Shiva be a general or a diplomat? Is Quetzalcoatl trapped in a zoo? In short, connect your chosen figure to the contemporary world and imagine the life he/she/it might lead.

He couldn't remember how exactly he came to this world, nor when. But he still recalled the days with other archangels in heaven, in the light of the Lord.

Then he left for the land of Adam’s heirs.

Michael checked his schedule again, making sure that he had remembered all his appointments correctly. He then submitted the case report to his boss, while waiting for his often-late partner to come to work. Ten years of work has made him a veteran of investigation and detection, and of course, the star agent of Criminal Investigative Division of FBI Los Angeles.

His weapon: a Glock 22, which felt just like his sword from when he was still the commander of the angel legions. He could tackle his targets easily with only a few moves. And he was fast, really fast, thanks to the endless battles with the devil’s armies, who were hundreds of times faster than humans, and far more savage. He had finished thousands of cases in his ten years at the Bureau, and had never taken a single day off.

"All set?" Michael’s partner Dean – a dashing twenty-some, recently transferred from New York, thanks to his talent for trouble making – knocked on his desk. He gave a brief nod and jogged out of the headquarters with him.

Michael had never seen a more disturbing case. The victims were killed in an extremely cruel way. Every one of them was paralyzed and then tortured to death. The criminal left nothing at the scene but his signature: a bloody butterfly mark.

"Stefan Crawley, 26, Caucasian, 5'7", blonde hair, and dark brown eyes. Found dead this morning by his neighbor. Fifth victim of the same M.O. – serial murder confirmed." After examining the fresh scene, Michael realized that he would have to give up home cooking and order takeout Chinese again. Pity for the pork chops he defrosted this morning. The Bureau really owed his stomach extra allowance.

He found a small piece of unidentified fabric when his cellphone started to scream, breaking the dead silence.

"One of our informants just called, saying he’s got reliable evidence. Meet him at House of Blues, Sunset Boulevard at 9:00 pm today."

The City of Angels, Michael smiled to himself as he drove along Sunset Boulevard. Should be "of Lost Angels," flamboyant yet enthralling. He painstakingly parked the car, and stepped into the dark dreamy bar, searching for the informer. Though named the House of Blues, this place was full of strong beats and the inviting smell of jambalaya and bread pudding.

He went upstairs to avoid the crowd and get a panoramic view from the balcony. His eyes soon grasped something. As the tall and lean figure turned around gently, Michael recognized a familiar face.

The late archangel Lucifer now stood in front of him.
